So we got multiple states to manage and as we learned that can be done with use reducer.
It could all be done with used state somehow but with use reducer it's much easier so we'll call use
reducer here in the new place component.
And now we need to set up reduce our function here and I'll name it form reducer.
The name is up to you though and justice before it's a function that receives a state and an action
and then needs to return and you state we can pass form reducer here to user a user initially here.
I also want to have an initial state and dare I want to have two properties in my state so my state
is an object and I want to have a inputs property and I want to have a is valid property.
My idea here is that is valid stories to information whether the overall form is valid and inputs is
a nested object that stores information about the validity of the individual inputs.
So in my case title and here I want to use 2D I.D. I assign to these inputs that will make updating
easier later.
So title and description and title then is an object again where we have let's say the value initially
set to an empty string and then is valid for that individual input initially set to false.
And now I will copy that and add the same year for description and is valid of the overall form initially.
Also is false.
So this is the initial state does this then the state we need to update instead of the form reducer
based on the different actions we might receive.
So again we can switch on the action type to follow that same pattern as before we can specify a default
case here where we just returned the unchanged state and of course I also want to handle a case here
and there I will handle the input change case let's say.
But that's totally up to you how you named it in there of course we will return a new object and you
state object.
And here we need to update a couple of things we need to update the input state which changed a. overall
form validity state so let's run some logic in there and that's the idea why we have road users we can
run more complex logic to derive our required state update I'll add a helper variable form is valid
which initially is true and then I want to go through all the inputs I have in my form here in my former
state and find out if all these inputs are valid so I'll go through all the inputs in state stored inputs.
Remember that our state here has the inputs property so I'll go through all the inputs stored there
with a for in loop because I'm going for an object and then here I check if the input I'm currently
looking at and keep in mind this isn't the anti input idea here right.
So we could named this input ideas because I'm going through the inputs I'm going through title and
description and that is what will be stored here and input ideas I check of dad is equal to let's say
action input ideas.
So I'm effectively looking at the inputs and checking the input I'm currently looking at is that the
input which is getting updated here in this current action if data decays I will take the information
from the dispatched action on whether it is valid or not so I'll then set form is valid equal to form
is valid and action dot is valid so if that input change for the given input is valid ls if I'm looking
at an input in my form state which is not currently getting updated through to currently running action
well then DNA will set form is valid equal to form is valid and state inputs for the input I.D. We're
currently looking at is valid.
So basically I take the stored value the stored validity for this input because it is the input word
not currently updating with does action and does a pro to make sure that I always take the previous
value of form is valid and combine this with the new validity value and if data is false this will be
set to false and false with false or false with true will always yield false true which is my initial
state with false however will yield false whereas true and true will keep true so that ensures that
if we have at least one false validity anywhere the overall foreign validity becomes false and with
that after the for loop we return our new state here and there I want to set I want to copy my existing
state first of all and then set inputs equal to the current input state so I'm copying that as well
but then I want to override the input state 40 input we're updating with this action and this action
has input I d fields that's my expectation so we'll use this dynamic assignment here and change the
key input idea.
So of the input I did past with the action to be a new object where the value is action that value and
is valid is action that is valid so this dynamically updates one of our fields in this inputs as it
should be in his inputs object so for example if we dispatch an action with an I.D. and input idea of
title then we would in the end see title in here and update the title input with a new value add a new
validity and leave the description input untouched well and then I also want to set is valid here so
the overall form validity to form is valid that is my reduce your logic quite complex but it should
ensure that we update the information about the inputs and the overall form validity no justice before.
Use reducer returns values.
So I will use array D structuring to get these values and the first value is my fourth estate.
The second value is a dispatch function just as we had it inside of the input and now in the title input
handler I want to call dispatch and dispatch a new action where I set to type equal to input change.
That's the type I'm looking for in my reducer.
So we'll set this type here and I provide a value here because I try to extract a value from action
here and later also is valid and the input I d here.
So we need to pass these three pieces of information value of course is the value I get here is valid
is well the information I get here as the argument and input I.D. is the idea here.
So now we actually have a flexible reusable input handler so we can just name it Input handler get rid
of the description Input handler and simply bind this Input handler here to both the title input as
well as the description input because we get all the information we need inside of that function anyways
so no need to create multiple functions.
Now here this patch would technically be a dependency and you can add it but react and sure stead this
patch from use reducer never changes.
So you can also admitted and with that we are hopefully managing you overall for invalidity.
So let's go back to our new place component here and end there.
Let's now utilize this for invalidity for example by adding a button at the bottom and for Dad we first
of all need to imported so here all import button from shared components form elements button and add
this button inside of the rendered form.
After all these inputs here maybe set to type to submit and set disabled equal to not form state is
valid.
So when the form is not valid the button should be disabled.
And then on the button I'll have a caption of at place and now if everything works the way it should
this button each should be disabled.
When ever our form is not valid so let's safeties.
Let's have a look.
This reloads we got two inputs and initially the button is disabled.
If I enter something here this is valid but the button is still disabled but tab in here we get our
error buttons disabled.
If I enter something here which has at least five characters everything gets enabled though so it looks
like this is indeed working in the way it should.
If both is valid we can tap the button and right now we don't handle the form submission properly but
that will change but if at least one input is invalid the bot this disabled because our overall form
state seems to be invalid.
So dad is working as it should with the help of user reduced rent all the logic we have here and we're
not done of course.
Now let's also handled a form submission.